Spotify Wrapped is a feature presenting Spotify users’ 100 most played
songs from the past year.  In 2021, Spotify Wrapped calculated an “Audio
Aura” for each user, a “reading of [their] two most prominent moods as
dictated by [their] top songs and artists of the year.”  Suppose Spotify
determines an audio aura by looking at the average energy, valence, and
danceability of a person’s top 100 songs from the past year.  In
answers.txt, reflect on the following questions:

1.  If songs.db contains the top 100 songs of one listener from 2018,
    how would you characterize their audio aura?

    I might start by using the following query to find the values in
    question:

        SELECT AVG(energy),
               AVG(valence),
               AVG(danceability)
          FROM songs;

    RESULTS:
    AVG(energy) = 0.65906
    AVE(valence) = 0.484443
    AVG(danceability) = 0.71646

    Then, with some quick Google research, it looks like Spotify might
    use the following definitions for its calculation of the three
    values:

    Danceability:
        Numerical, danceability describes how suitable a track is for
        dancing based on a combination of musical elements including
        tempo, rhythm stability, beat strength, and overall regularity.
        A value of 0.0 is least danceable and 1.0 is most danceable.

    Energy:
        Numerical, Energy is a measure from 0.0 to 1.0 and represents a
        perceptual measure of intensity and activity. Typically,
        energetic tracks feel fast, loud, and noisy. For example, death
        metal has high energy, while a Bach prelude scores low on the
        scale. Perceptual features contributing to this attribute
        include dynamic range, perceived loudness, timbre, onset rate,
        and general entropy.

    Valence:
        Numerical, Measure from 0.0 to 1.0 describing the musical
        positiveness conveyed by a track. Tracks with high valence sound
        more positive (e.g. happy, cheerful, euphoric), while tracks
        with low valence sound more negative (e.g. sad, depressed,
        angry).

                                  (credit to Peter Dola on rpubs.com)


    Referencing the Spotify article about how they determine color
    gradients for the "aura", I would look for the color combination
    that matches up with the mood of moderate-high energy, just-below-
    middle valence, and moderate-high danceability.

    Orange and yellow would be my selections, since the descriptions for
    these two colors matches up the most with high-energy music that is
    not particularly emotionally extreme.


2.  Hypothesize about why the way you’ve calculated this aura might not
    be very representative of the listener.  What better ways of
    calculating this aura would you propose?

    On a personal level, I don't think two adjectives or two colors is a
    sufficient palette size to describe a person's music tastes. I know
    my own music listening occupies a tremendous range of purposes -
    from emotional connection to productivity to sleep to socializing.
    None of these contexts would define me as a person in whole, and I
    think it's silly to try and condense something as complex as a
    personality into something so concise. At the very least, I would
    want to take dozens of times more averages from the data and assign
    values to a color spectrum that is interpretively meaningful from
    a layperson's eye. Realistically, the usefulness of these types of
    displays comes from data visualization. It's like a word cloud but
    for colors. I would want vastly more data to be represented.



